hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of
neonewstoday.com I'm your host Dylan
Grabowski in this episode of the smart
economy podcast I sat down and spoke
with Oliver Lynch the CEO at bittrex
global bittrex global provides spot
markets for various cryptocurrencies to
users across the world with the
exception of the US The Entity is
completely separate from bittrex which
was based out of the US and announced
its filing for chapter 11 bankruptcy in
May of
2023. in this conversation Oliver and I
talk about the difference between
bittrex Global and bittrex bittrex
Global's forthcoming conversations with
U.S Regulators various different
regulatory guidelines across different
jurisdictions in the world outlook for
the blockchain and crypto end industry
and much more just a reminder nothing
said on this podcast is a solicitation
to buy or sell any tokens that nothing
should be taken as Financial advice and
that the host or guests May hold tokens
discussed in any given episode with that
said I really enjoyed chatting with
Oliver and I hope you enjoy the
conversation too
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast today we're speaking
with Oliver Lynch the CEO of bittrex
global how are you doing today Oliver
I'm very well indeed thanks for having
me on the podcast yeah very excited to
have you on this is going to be a really
fun conversation to kind of talk about
regulations from a Global Perspective
some of the unfortunate news that came
out to kind of kick off the conversation
I myself was a bitter X User so it's
kind of sad to see the global entity
have to cut off its hand in order to let
the body survive so I just wanted to
start with that caveat and kind of give
an rip to the U.S branch it is very sad
it's just on a terminology point this
wasn't a branch and it wasn't like a a
US ring and a global Wing these were
separate companies and Matrix us was set
up first back in you know 2013-14 so
it's been around for a long time with
that it's Global uh much later in
2019 18 19 you know once the global
footprint had got big enough so we've
always been legally and operationally
distinct but we obviously share a
Heritage and yeah it's really sad to see
a situation where the US company felt I
had no choice but to wind up his
operations yeah and we'll we'll
definitely dig into that uh one of the
things I like to do with with the Pod is
to kind of just get a little bit of a
background as to who you are and where
you came from my girlfriend and I just
finished watching the Diplomat on
Netflix and there's strong ties to the
Royal Navy you were in the Royal Navy
Reserve so I'm just wondering if you had
any cool or interesting stories from the
few years you spent when you were in the
reserves
uh I will I wasn't a real Navy officer I
was uh you know one up from a Cadet
really but um I learned a lot of
interesting things and a lot of the
values that the military around the
world share and the discipline and the
kind of approach to the way the world
Works which is personal responsibility
and I think that is something that is an
underrated value and it's probably
something that we as Society needs to
think about but I mean that across the
board and and you know I'm gonna segue
seamlessly into a crypto narrative right
because because I've been media trained
with an inch of my life and and that's
what they tell you to do uh but but no
there's a serious point which is that
what crypto is at its heart about and
what the potential and the exciting
proposition of crypto is is empowering
people to have access to financial
services and products that they wouldn't
otherwise have and enable them to you
know realize potential that they would
otherwise be be shut out from so you
know those values actually do permeate
across the board and do have a resonance
in crypto
ranging from things like do your own
research which is you know something you
hear over and over again and there's is
really good advice but also just at a
fundamental level like what's the point
here what's the value add here well a
very large component of that is what we
like to call a democratization of
finance and the access to products and
services and and attributes that people
just don't otherwise have access to in
the traditional Finance sphere so it's
been a bit of a long-winded roundabout
way of saying it but I think that's a
really important value and I'm really
grateful to have the opportunity to see
that in a very kind of different context
of an early stage of my life yeah that's
that's a great point that you bring up
and I myself am the content creator so
I'm often putting out articles and in
podcast episodes and sometimes dealing
with uh folks who speculated into a
cryptocurrency and a token and it's
always important to hammer down that
we're all adults here we all made our
own decisions when we chose to invest or
speculate on an asset so every really
appreciate that perspective so before
you were working with bittrex global you
had a previous 10-year career in the
legal field practicing Financial
regulatory law for about a decade so
what does kind of your transition out of
the reserves out of law school and into
the field what does that look like for
the previous decade yeah
yeah they very kind of traditional Post
University life I I trained at a global
Law Firm I spent over a decade at that
firm practicing Financial regulatory law
and a traditional Finance space So based
in London did a bunch of work out in the
US as well obviously across Europe and
the UK at that point was part of the EU
and I had a specialism in we called FMI
Financial Market infrastructure so
that's traditional exchanges Clearing
Houses ccbs data repositories all that
kind of infrastructure side of things
and then in the last I don't know five
six years or so I got involved in some
of the big projects out in the Middle
East including some of the mega projects
based out of Saudi Arabia and those are
very fintech heavy and there's a bin
check regulatory side of things became
an increasingly important part of what I
was doing and so you take you know
traditional markets and Regulation and
bintech and mash them together other and
you sort of get crypto ish and so here I
am and I joined uh in 2021 as general
counsel at Bishops Global uh so still on
on the legal side and then I guess like
last year when my predecessor stepped
down I got the bump up one place at the
wrong time and uh took on the additional
role of CEO really looking forward to
digging into what that transition looked
like and how you went from the legal
side to kind of like a management side
perspective but before that I just want
to hear what was your kind of Genesis
moment with blockchain or crypto was it
Bitcoin during the white paper was it
ethereum during the the Dow hack when
did you first hear about crypto and when
did it like click for you yeah I wish I
could say I was an early Visionary that
I got it as soon as the uh Bitcoin white
paper was released but the reality is
that's not the case the reality is like
many people in traditional finance and
many of whom still don't get it I was
quite slow to to understand but I think
my journey like especially like lawyers
and lawyers are kind of conservative
cautious geeky right but what what we
get is or at least I found I got quite
more rapidly is blockchain and the the
concept of DLT and the potential which
by the way we're only just discovering
that the potential for DLT to be
disruptive right and everything
everything's disruptive these days right
I stubbed my toe on my bed this morning
and that was disruptive no I've never
heard anything not described as game
changing and disruptive but I think DLT
genuinely is game changing and
disruptive and I think as a lawyer my
interest was really first peaked by that
and then as you begin to explore more
and you understand actually Bitcoin is
just one aspect of a much wider
ecosystem and a much wider movement and
a much bigger project I was just like
well I've got an opportunities here to
to get involved in this and to be um
maybe not at the ground floor but but
one floor up and help shape it and
especially you know thinking back 2020
2021 the world looked very different
from then I mean in crypto terms that's
about 100 years ago and what was
beginning to happen was this recognition
of the importance of Regulation and so
what's really interesting is bittrex's
Journey started on this a long time
before everyone else's because when
bittrex was founded and I say in 2013-14
it had three main principles three
pillars right which is security
innovation and Regulation and you know
security and Innovation I've never heard
anyone disagree with those right I've
never heard anyone say you know when I
really really one is an unsecure and
uninivative extreme and some people are
better at it than others but everyone
kind of sees it as as a a thing to
Aspire towards but I definitely have
heard people say I don't want regulation
like I want unregulation exchange and in
fact that was the dominant narrative
back then and in fact our Founders
received actual death threats from
people saying how dare you push for
regulation this is anathema to
everything we stand for you know when we
take over you'll be burst against well a
really harrowing harrowing stuff that by
the time we'd cycle forward as far as
2019 2021 that stopped being the
dominant narrative unfortunately it was
still too strong a narrative and and
maybe still is but the world had kind of
Well we'd won right we'd won that
argument the world had woken up to the
need if crypto is going to be part of
the you know wider financial sector
the nature regulator on similar kind of
principles and so I was sitting there
thinking well heckfish this is like this
could be my chance to do that and I've
been involved in some some other
projects and some special economic zones
and you know pushing the boundaries of
what regulation can do to really kind of
jump start economies and I was like well
this is an opportunity to see what
regulation could do to jump start the
monetization of this entire kind of
technology and so so that's that's I
guess what got me involved and what
keeps me interested we're still building
that I mean the job is is by no means
done and the scandals of last year's
show that even if people were were
talking the right kind of talk they
weren't uh walking the right kind of
book and and there's there was still and
probably still is a long way to go for
many people because they you know it's
all very well having your talking points
on regulation but you got into this kind
of bizarre situation where regulatory
statuses were just seeing just you know
trophies to put in the trophy cabinet
and never look down again right so and
he got this kind of unedifying oh I've
got 486 regular she said oh only 486
I've got 592 and it's a it was just kind
of pathetic because
any lawyer but any any person that has
any kind of experience in the financial
industry tells you it's not about
quantity it's about quality and and you
know you say to people oh you're
regulated as if that's like a yes no
binary question well no you say you're
regulator but are you really like where
are you regulated how were you regulated
what kind of supervisory oversights you
have and ultimately how does that keep
me my markets my customers safe right
because that's what it's really all
about it's about the quality there now
these are those are the questions that
should be being asked they are now being
asked much more robustly and and that's
right and proper because the fact is
doing things the right way you know I
advice Bank side buys broker dealers
they will all tell you being regulated
is really really hard and it's really
annoying and you have to answer endless
questions and there's constantly someone
looking over your shoulder and checking
your work and we're being audited and
every year and you're being thing you
have on site so it's it's a real pain
it's really difficult and so it should
be right because without that it's not
worth anything there's no point in
saying oh I've got this this badge of
honor from someone when that badge is
basically meaningless it has to be
difficult you have to put in the hard
yards you have to be willing to turn
down Revenue opportunities just because
they don't put within the acceptable
parameters you have to walk the wall and
so a picture it's Global we've been
doing that we've voluntarily subjected
ourselves to regulatory regimes into the
most robust jurisdictions in the world
and the world the rest of the world is I
guess now catching up and um I guess the
next six 12 18 months especially in the
lead up to Mika which is the the biggest
development in regulation I'm I'm sure
we'll have a chance to talk about that
people are beginning to realize
regulation isn't just something that you
say tick a box and everyone's okay with
it it's something you've got to live day
in day out yeah my brother-in-law is a
lawyer and uh in 2017 when I got into
the space he was also very much
blockchain not Bitcoin so I can resonate
with kind of where you were talking
about a bit earlier curious before we
jump into bittrex were blockchain
networks just something in your previous
career when you were working for various
different Financial entities other than
bittrex whereas blockchain just
something that wasn't being looked at
for international remittances or
anything like that because there was no
regulations or regulatory framework that
made it possible for traditional
financial institutions to integrate this
Tech so I think that is one of the big
blockers for the big institutions right
is that their rules their risk
committees simply won't let them engage
what we did see and some of the scandals
from last year is they does seem to be a
bit of a bypass on that kind of thing
and questions were not asked as robustly
as they should have been by those
institutions who were just too price
sensitive I think what we're realizing
now is what they're realizing now is you
know it's all about building
relationships and it's it's all very
well saying and it's true that the story
of the of the bear Market that we're
currently in is that institutional
interest is just as high if not higher
than ever right that that is true and
encouraging because you know those guys
have Decades of experience and risk
models and trading models that they want
to apply to crypto that's a great thing
but they have to be able to do it in a
way that leads to a lecture like
comparison with traditional Finance
right so the fact is every big bank now
has a crypto desk right even the ones
that say they don't they do I know they
do every fund manager every money
manager every family office knows that
they have to offer exposure to crypto in
some form or another otherwise they're
just going to be seen as Left Behind
stuck in the muds whatever it is right
but they can only do that in a rigorous
and a robust way if they can say well
look you could either put your money in
here traditional stocks or bonds or
whatever it is or you can put your money
here in whether it's directly into
crypto or into some kind of crypto ETF
or but they can only make those
comparisons if they are like for like
and so that that peace this is when
people say oh you know regulation will
will kill the industry going back to
those awful people sending death threats
to to our Founders it's like no no it's
the regulation it's the ability for the
sector to grow up and to take its place
with the adults at the grown-ups table
that's what actually leads to mass
adoption at least on the institutional
side but on the retail side too I mean
look I wouldn't put my money in a
non-regulated bank why would I put my
money on an unregular exchange and if
we're sitting there saying you know
these are opportunities for ordinary
people or new you know you and me but
more importantly be people that are
unbanked or underbanked underprivileged
badly served by the traditional Finance
those people don't have the access that
they need to have but that doesn't mean
that they don't deserve the same level
of protections that they could get so if
you want to encourage these people to
start trading in crypto start getting
involved in in this in the sector we
need to be able to guarantee them the
same level of protections as they would
get in traditional Finance now that
doesn't mean the rules have to be
exactly the same in fact the rules can't
be exactly the same the technology is
too new and evolving and has its nuances
but the principles backing them up had
to be just as robust so whether that's
you know kyc and AML cancerous financing
stuff you know trade monitoring Market
manipulation protections all those
things that we take for granted nowadays
in the traditional Finance sphere we
need to start getting to a position
where they're equally unarguable just
because your assets now happen to be
digital yeah and here in the state
States when it comes to deciding whether
an asset is a security or not we're
using an almost 100 years how we test
that was looking at Orange Groves and
seeing how investors would be able to
claim any sort of future Revenue off of
promises that were made so you're
talking about financial institutions
Banks having crypto desks but there
still needs to be a like for like so do
we need to create new laws new
regulations to replace something like a
Howie test and a 100 year old outdated
way to verify what type of assets or
Securities or not are we getting there
do we need to completely revamp the
whole system do we need to start from
scratch is there a way to kind of meet
in the middle what's your perspective
well what we're seeing is a development
of a two-speed World we're seeing those
jurisdictions that really embracing
crypto I really want to grab a piece of
that action saying okay well we need to
engage with crypto on crypto's terms
understand what digital assets are how
they work what the risks are how to
identify and manage those risks and
therefore how to do all of this stuff
safely and the most successful
jurisdictions so far in creating a safe
regulatory environment for crypto to to
thrive have adopted that approach so
business Global is regulated in
Liechtenstein and then Bermuda they
created brand new legislation the tbcg
and Liechtenstein also known as the
blockchain ACT Dabber the digital assets
business act in Bermuda and others have
followed suit since right so we
mentioned Mika in the EU Mika is
actually based on the CBG in
Liechtenstein in some cases explicitly
but there are others too at the UK
consultation paper suggests a new
regulatory framework Vara in Dubai Hong
Kong Japan like that the list goes on
and what we're seeing is that approach
is just so much more successful at
achieving the goal I remember the goal
is ultimately protecting individuals
right there's so much more successful at
achieving that goal than this discussion
that we have is like well let's try and
view crypto through the prism of
traditional categorization and say is it
a security or commodity or a derivative
and the answer is sort of no it's none
of those things it's a new it's your own
new thing of digital assets or crypto or
whatever it is you want to call it and
you're never going to be able to fit
that square peg in the round hole
especially when that round hole is as
you say getting on for 100 years old so
I'm not saying it's not possible to
reconcile the two and I'm sure there are
good models out there for doing it but
the direct approach of regulating crypto
was crypto
that's the more straightforward but also
the more
all-encompassing and what it means is
there aren't gaps to fall through which
there are if you try and do it by a sort
of piecemeate approach or indeed as
we're seeing in the US and it's not just
the US that slagging behind on this but
you know they're the world's biggest
economy but what you end up with this is
this difficult regulation by enforcement
kind of approach where no one knows what
what an Earth is going on you fumble
about in this fog of uncertainty not
knowing whether you're doing the right
thing or not until it sort of someone
decides it's too late and I want to talk
about this kind of shooting from the hip
that the SEC is seemingly doing here in
the states with regulation the
enforcement but something I am curious
to hear about you've been at bit tracks
for a year and a half maybe a little bit
more now uh when you started you were
there with for legal counsel and now
you're the CEO I guess broadly speaking
you started pre FTX pre-lunar collapse
and then you've been the CEO
helming the ship in these murky Waters
if you're using the Royal Navy analogy
over your time at bittrex what have the
different bittrex Global uh what have
your different considerations what are
your different focal points been
um and how has just like the General
market and collapse of things like FTX
really just demanded your attention
focus elsewhere yeah yeah it's but it's
been a journey that's for sure and uh
don't worry about uh getting hung up on
the difference between bittrex and
Bishops Global others seem to confuse
too uh the SEC for one but the fact is
my favorite analogy for all of this is
it's a bit like the early days of the
internet right if you got on the
internet in in the mid to late 90s it
was an absolute cesspit I mean bright
neon lights bugs and viruses and scams
everywhere you looked but in amongst it
all also things that became Google and
Amazon and Wikipedia and you know and
I've heard of those and they still exist
and they're still doing great thing
that's not to say the internet's a
phenomenal you know place of sunshines
and rainbows now right it's still it's
still got its problems but it's nothing
like it was then because there was this
clearing out of the goth sitting
underneath it the scans and the Bad
actors right and I think crypto is going
through has gone through is yet to go
through which is unclear exactly where
we are in that process but that's the
process that is happening and so the
trick is of course making sure you're
one of the ones that survives and the
way you do that is by being the good
actors and and not hearing to the proper
principles and where it's different
right where the analogy breaks down is
unlike the internet when we're talking
about crypto we're talking about
people's money we're talking about
finance and so there's this additional
layer on top of it which is setting
expectations based on the hard lessons
that have been learned in traditional
Finance spheres right so there's no
point having gone through the 2008
financial crisis learn those lessons
applied them come up with structures
that work in a traditional Finance
sphere and then pretending that none of
that exists when it comes to crypto all
of those principles all of those lessons
ought to apply in just the same way and
if we don't learn those lessons and we
don't apply those uh Solutions in the
same way then we're doing ourselves to
suffer the same consequences that
traditional Finance did so
I think what to come back to your
question is like what it's been like
over the last year is safe in the
knowledge that it's Global will be
one of those that succeeds because it
has indelibly imprinted into its into
its very lifeblood this concept of doing
things the right way this concept of you
know regulation is a key pillar of our
very Foundation you have to have
confidence in that and faith in that
allow the clear out to happen beneath
you and hope that you know those
principles are enough to carry you over
the rough seas and I think we've uh
probably abused that analogy far too
much I'll avoid uh any Oceanic
references from here on out uh otherwise
you'll have to walk the plank of course
so bittrex Global is completely separate
from bittrex us but I did want to just
touch a little bit on the news that came
out last month that bittrex us is filing
chapter 11 at the behest of the SEC
regulating via enforcement in very murky
Waters well not not at the behest of
right so Matrix us announced that it was
getting out of the US before that
happens I mean right the fact is the I
look at their public statement when they
announced that they were leaving the US
when they were shutting down operations
in the U.S they just said the regulatory
environments in which they were
operating was so murky so untransparent
so uncertain that they just couldn't
continue to operate there and if if you
say as a company we'll only do it if we
can do it the right way the fact is
there are lots of people saying that
there are lots of good actors more than
we often get credit for who want to do
things the right way and at the moment
they simply cannot in the US because
there's this bait and switch there's
this fundamental uncertainty as to what
the rules are uh let alone how you might
comply with them you know so so that
environment just gives rise to this
inability to do business in in a way we
would want to yeah I agree I've been uh
working full-time in the crypto space
since 2017. I personally don't know
anybody who's walking around at
conferences meetups events proudly
proclaiming they're a scammer most
people I know are generally trying to be
good actors in the space and leverage
the positive externalities and benefits
that this technology can offer so I'm
curious then uh it sounds like there are
two separate things that went on with
pitrex us there was the entity
announcing they're leaving the US and
then there's this separate chapter 11
that is seemingly brought on by sec I'm
not sure the right way to word it so if
I worded it incorrectly I'm sure you'll
correct me but I'm wondering is bittrex
US planning to fight the SEC go to court
over this to to bring out some sort of
determination so that we can start
having more of like a vision forward and
understanding what the SEC is actually
asking of folks absolutely so they've
said publicly again this is not me
speaking for them I just I've read what
you've read they've said publicly they
are going to make that case and
demonstrate that the SEC is wrong in its
action similarly Bishop's Global is
continuing it's action that will it will
defend itself rigorously in the U.S
courts okay so can you just share a
little bit about the differences between
bittrex Global and then the other kind
of entities that are under the general
bittrex name so it's basically it's
basically just two uh instances bittrex
us which serve us and it's Global which
serve rest the world Mrs Global actually
so when we first set it up we got
ourselves regulated in Liechtenstein uh
which was the lead jurisdiction back
then and then actually in 2020 see we
set up it is a global footprint got
bigger again it stopped making sense to
service the rest of the rest of the
world out of Europe so we set up
Global in Bermuda and got ourselves a
second license for it being regulated uh
under the Dabber by the BMA in Bermuda
so it's a service of non-eu clients and
we play around with those allocations
and the jurisdictions but both of those
regimes under the cbtg and under Dabba
are very similar and are really robust
and and the really important thing is is
not just having nice words on a page
right anyone can kind of write
legislation you need something to back
it up and what that means is Regulators
who are interested but know what they're
doing right and they have experience and
and experiencing traditional Finance too
so in Liechtenstein that's obviously
private wealth and banking in Bermuda
that's insurance and so what you get is
frankly very smart interested Regulators
working to a appropriate tailored fit
for purpose regulatory framework so yeah
there are enforcements and they're
they're monitoring of the perimeter is
and and should be incredibly robust but
at least that that makes sense having
robust enforcement is not a bad thing in
fact it's a good thing but you need to
be enforcing something that's fit for
purpose in the first place yeah and so
I'm curious are you seeing um I don't
know if regulatory Arbitrage is
necessarily the right word but there's
been a key theme at the conferences I've
been going to here in the States this
year East Denver consensus you hear a
lot of lawyers and VCS talking about
this brain drain from the U.S so are you
seeing this regulatory Arbitrage of
crypto companies and entities opting to
leave places that have traditionally
serviced the financial sector and new
companies are you seeing this Mass
Exodus now of folks going to the BMA to
Bermuda to Liechtenstein what does that
kind of look like from your perspective
so it's really interesting when you talk
about regulatory Arbitrage as regular
Street lawyers that tends to be a dirty
phrase right what that generally means
is going around the world trying to find
jurisdiction that will impose the least
weapons some obligations dude like a
race to the bottom I didn't mean it like
that though no but that's what's really
interesting right because when we use an
encrypto at the moment we actually mean
the total opposite right we we're saying
okay where can I go now that gets me the
most bright badge of honor that imposes
the most rigorous standards and so you
know I was I was in a speech given by
the Premier of Bermuda and he was like
come to Bermuda it's really difficult
come to Ruda our standards are really
really burdensome I and this is the
selling point as well it should be
because then people say oh Bermuda right
I know that one that that's serious
right that's difficult and if you if the
BMA say you're good man we we know
you've been through the ringer right now
obviously no regulator Regulators don't
want companies right the companies are
ultimately responsible for what they do
but having someone with with that
reputation so if that's what regular
Arbitrage means in crypto then that's
that's a great thing and we should
encourage that because that's not a
racism bottom that's a race to the top
of blight to Quality or whatever it is
you want to call it so so that that I
think is a really good development in
terms of the The Brain Drain or the
escape from the US I think you are
seeing elements of that now the
difficulty is you know I always used to
say a CEO Bishops Global the joyous I
never need to worry about the US right
because we don't have any us customers
we don't offer our services into the US
yeah so I don't need to worry about it
turns out some people disagreed and they
think I didn't need to worry about it
but we'll have that discussion with them
but I think it's tempting as a global
company as a non-us company to think
right well we'll just bring down the
shutters block off the US and pretend
that it doesn't exist I don't think that
works right because the fact is the US
is still the world's largest economy it
still has you know the best universities
in the world it has the best Innovation
entrepreneurs in the world it has all of
the infrastructure traditional markets
simply pretending that it doesn't exist
doesn't work because what the US does
resonates around the world and so I
think that there is a strong push and a
realization that there needs to be a
strong push from within crypto that says
if we're going to have this grown-up
adult respectable industry for crypto
that we know can be built and should be
built the US needs to be a part of that
conversation and in a way like you can't
blame the SEC right they've only got the
tools that they're given but if if all
you've been given is a hammer the whole
world looks like a nail right that's
just how it works and so you know who
who can solve this well the answer
ultimately is Congress needs to look at
what's been happening around the world
and these developments that we were
talking about you know for me there's
only a couple of hours away like it
didn't need to look very far and if it's
worried about scale we'll look at what
the EU is doing with Mika right that's a
comparable jurisdiction in terms of
sizing complexity these things can be
done
I understand of course the politics in
the US is very different and there's
lots of nuance and complexity there but
I think it would be naive of the
industry to say oh well it's great
everyone's leaving the US so we'll be
able to snap up all that talent and
everything will be fine I think that's
naive because I don't know that we will
ever reach the full potential of crypto
if this major component in the world is
is missing I definitely want to dig into
the different jurisdictions that are
providing more regulatory clear
regulatory framework but before we do
that I am curious to hear what are the
types of services that bittrex Global
offers its users and then having located
in Liechtenstein and in Bermuda because
of the framework that's been provided
are there new types of services that
bittrex Global has been able to offer
because there is a more confident
feeling that you're able to operate in a
regulatory compliant manner so so the
answers to that question is is yes right
and in particular you know the framework
in Bermuda allows for a wide range of
tokenization of real world assets to
take place and we're really just
beginning to scratch the surface on what
can be done there now bittrex global is
and always has been a spot exchange and
so to some extent we've always taken the
view that the core offering needs to be
simple and straightforward and it's when
you get these complexities and the lack
of transparency around those
complexities that you encounter some of
the difficulties like we saw with of
course FTX so we don't have unaffiliated
hedge funds and we don't have some of
the bells and whistles that certainly
look very shiny but um maybe of
Limitless value and that's not to say
that there isn't a perfectly legitimate
way of doing all of those things there
is and there's value in doing all of
them but they have to be done in the
right way and that just takes time and I
think springing stuff springing up and
suddenly exploding without the framework
behind it we're out the resources behind
it is where you get some of the problems
so Dabber in Bermuda in particular does
allow for tokenization of real world
assets and does allow for stokens and uh
leverage tokens and all these kind of
additional product lines at the moment
we're being very cautious we're being
very careful because that's what our
customers want at this stage right the
the direct transparency in particular
knowing that the entity you're
Contracting with is the entity that's
regulated and this was one of the many
kind of bait and switch problems that
seem to have existed in the scandals
from last year is it's all very well
saying oh you know Bishop's Global
reader is regulated I'm the Dabber by
the BMA and then when you look in your
terms of service you're actually
regulated by so sorry you're being
serviced by some unregulated unknown
entity out of God knows where we've
never done that we've never sought to do
that uh if you're being serviced by
Global burrito it'll be
it's Global Bermuda limited and go look
on the register that CNC that's serving
you so that level of transparency and
straightforwardness is something I think
in particular following the standards of
last year people are really are really
valuing but again that doesn't mean that
Innovation is stifled in any way and
we're working hard and closely with our
customers to really understand what it
is that they're looking for what
features are that they're after and a
One-Stop shop that does everything with
all the bells and whistles and
accoutrement all that other stuff
actually may not be the most safe and
secure and may not be really what
they're looking for so we've been kind
of alluding to FTX and the scandals of
2022 something that I've found
interesting is uh when we're in the
blockchain space in crypto space
everybody's always talking about
decentralization but last year we saw
two major different affronts we saw
Terra Luna a decentralized protocol
collapsing and then we saw FTX a
centralized entity collapsing so I'm
curious from the the larger scale
institutions you guys are having
conversations with or even just kind of
like your larger clients did this kind
of like double-sided attack from both
the decentralized entity and the
centralized entity kind of spooked them
or scared them from jumping further into
the space well I think what it did they
showed that the issue is not one of
centralizational decentralization and
actually the space works best when those
two things were in conjunction with each
other right and and it's easy for me I
could sit here CEO of a centralized
exchange and say oh you should always
only use centralized exchanges and in
fact you should only use Bishop's Global
and you know if any users are going to
be if any of your listeners are going to
be persuaded by that to become one of my
users then then great pretend I've said
that but actually we take a much longer
term view of the sector at Bishops
Global and there are definite lessons to
be learned from the D5 guys and the C5
guys working together and creating
product that's actually safe and fit for
purpose for its users and so the lesson
I think the the clever lessons that
people are learning are it doesn't
really matter to the same extent exactly
how you're structured what matters is
how you operate regulation is a as an a
very important part of that and it is by
its very nature much more difficult to
regulate G5 projects because there's
nothing really to to latch onto in the
same way as there is with centralized
projects but that doesn't mean it can't
be done and again people have said oh
throw your hands up in the air and say
there's nothing to be done here well you
know you're just not trying hard enough
be a bit clever and a bit more
imaginative or pay your lawyers more and
you'll get there but I think what people
are really beginning to see is how
everything is structured they have to be
structured in a way that is transparent
that is open that is verifiable and that
is regulated now you can do that in in
any number of ways but there was need to
be fit for purpose and institutions do
have a role in really digging in because
the fact is they are the best at
understanding and modeling risk yeah if
you're if you're a large bank and you've
got 50 years of experience of complex
risk modeling under your belt in the
traditional Finance sphere you're just
going to be better at that than like
some guy trying his hand at things and
so it's perfectly legitimate and rights
and expected that we do rely to some
extent on the institutions to hold our
feet to the fire and to ask those
questions and to dig in those questions
can be asked of me but they can be asked
of and other centralized exchange or
they can be asked of a decentralized
project and they should be and so we we
all need to be more rigorous more robust
and those questions are now being asked
right and that's great and we love those
because we've got answers to them but
it's really on the sector as a whole
those people that want to see Mass
adoption or want to see the you know the
future of crypto being this kind of
grown-up industry to be just as rigorous
and robust with their preferred projects
as with as for everyone else so I'm
curious to to dig a little bit more in
Tamika and maybe even these uh new
regulations that uh Hong Kong is putting
forth but I just want to hear from your
perspective and maybe this is kind of an
unfair question to ask but do you think
that the SEC operating via the way that
they've been doing uh which is just
basically serving crypto entities with
these Wells notices and then having them
go through the ringer is this kind of an
act out of fear or do you think that
this is really like they are trying to
provide a path forward and they think
they're doing good well look I'm not
going to speculate on anyone's
motivation so I generally go through
life assuming people are acting in good
faith there does seem to be a lot of
confusion as to not just what that doing
but how they're doing it now what what's
motivating that what's behind that
people can have their own their own
speculation and I read the same press
that you do so yeah but I do ultimately
don't think it matters right because
what really matters is outcomes and I
guess two things are true the first is
it's all very well saying come in and
register or whatever it is but if
there's no path to doing that there's no
way to comply that is a meaningless
statement and the second thing is if as
a result of all of this your citizens
are less safe your citizens don't have
the protections that citizens in other
jurisdictions have then you failed right
then then you whether it's you the SEC
or you Congress or just you as a
jurisdiction are not achieving the best
outcomes for your citizens and for your
markets and for your industry as a whole
and that should worry anyone who has an
obligation to ensure the system is the
best it can be a company located here in
the U.S called promethium last week
announced that they were able to obtain
a special purpose broker dealer license
from the SEC which basically allows them
to custody assets as well as perform as
an exchange I'm not sure if you've heard
about this or dug into it yet just
wanted to hear your thoughts on if you
think this is a positive step forward
for at least this jurisdiction yeah I
haven't really dug into it and I need to
okay get a bit more into the details on
on what they're doing but if this is a
step towards a better regulatory Clarity
then that's a great thing and look if
it's not this then we can just keep up
English course there'll be something
else down the road giving the US that
certainty that it needs short of a kind
of about turn or a real change in
approach from The Regulators all my U.S
colleagues tell me it's going to require
some kind of legislative solution my
point is I guess there are lots of ways
of skinning this cat but one of them is
not sit around and say oh well it's
probably just skinned already gotcha so
bittrex Global has I guess headquartered
or officed in Liechtenstein and Bermuda
the EU recently passed Micah which will
take effect next year what are your kind
of insights thoughts do you think that
this is going to be positive for the
European Union I'd just love to hear
your perspective on what Michael will
offer entities that are trying to build
in a regulatory compliant manner yeah so
we were one of the very few exchanges
that was in favor of makeup from the
beginning and that's not surprising I
guess because it is built on the same
model that we've been operating on there
for three four years now as I say makers
is based in some cases explicitly on the
Lichtenstein blockchain acts so the
token container model uh the regulation
of service providers that is a model
that was built up and listen developed
there and it's been adopted and it's
very sensible approach is Mika perfect
no I've never encountered a regulatory
framework for anything that is perfect
right and that's kind of the point
there's always incremental advances
things you can change ways you can
Tinker people are already talking about
what's going to go into Mika 2 what's
missing I think again you've got to look
at the motivations of people taking pot
shots so you would have read the same
articles I have that said hey Mika
doesn't cover insert whatever it is you
want here so the whole thing is useless
and rubbish and we should put the whole
thing away and I'm just like no that's
not how it works right you're perfect is
the enemy of the good and there is an
awful lot in Mika that is good can we
make it better yes and actually as an
industry we've been very slow to engage
with policy makers and Regulators to
make it better and we need to do a
better job of that back when I was in
private practice I'd be advising Banks
and Market infrastructure on working
with the government whether that's
formally through consultation papers or
just informally all the time and that
was seen as perfectly normal way to do
things and then you get into crypto and
at least historically there's been a
well I'll just sit on the sidelines and
and pout or not say anything and hope
that they won't notice me and actually
all you end up with there is worse
regulations and so I think as as
Regulators as policy makers around the
world wake up to this and start
implementing robust regimes which is a
good thing the impetus needs to be on
people like me to say okay well how can
I help how can I roll my Steve's up and
get involved otherwise you just end up
with worse rules right it's not like
you're going to end up with no rules
you're just the very people that could
help shape the best regulation the best
protections the most transparent the
most clear way of doing things are
refusing to engage and ultimately that
doesn't really help anyone so Mika Mika
is a
overall I think a really good thing it
will help the EU because I say that the
thing that people need most is certainty
right and the number of people I've
heard say in the US context I'd rather
have certain bad rules than uncertainty
I think Mika is certain and good is it
certain and perfect no but it is certain
and good yes I think so so we're
recording this conversation on June 1st
today in Hong Kong is when these rules
that allowed The Regulators to approve
exchanges from what I've been able to
understand have gone into effect so how
has Hong Kong's new regulatory approach
impacted the perspective that bittrex
Global has for that region well Hong
Kong is just a really interesting
example it's you can either see it as
just another player in this Global race
I mentioned in the UK earlier Vara Japan
is in in the mix as well but I I think
the big overlay the additional Factor
there is of course the Intrigue of the
political interaction with mainland
China and how that bears out so I think
a lot of people are keeping even closer
an eye on Hong Kong than they might
otherwise do but let's not forget Hong
Kong is one of the major Global
Financial Centers
as indeed as Singapore and Singapore is
another one that's often thrown in in
that mix of you know what are they doing
in and the digital asset space so you
know still a long way to go still a lot
of uncertainty and I think that's
inevitable with Hong Kong as we begin to
understand exactly what the relationship
there is and how Beijing sees it and all
that kind of stuff but people are
certainly uh when Hong Kong speaks
people listen that's for sure gotcha and
the UK is now part of the EU so Micah is
not encompassing that however I hear on
this side of the pond I hear conflicting
sort of things going on in the UK I hear
there's kind of Draconian laws that are
anti-crypto blockchain but then there's
also leadership in the government
positions stating that they want the UK
to become a global hub for the
blockchain and crypto space so what's it
like over there what's the regulatory
Outlook are you positive are you
negative are you just kind of holding
your breath so there are some mixed
signals and that that is unfortunate the
biggest development was in in February
of this year the treasury released a
consultation paper for an
all-encompassing crypto regulation not
unlike Mika and actually in many ways
along similar principles and this was
part of the government's stated
intention to create an all-encompassing
regulatory framework for crypto now that
consultation paper was was released at
quite an early stage it was a lot more
open texture than quite a lot of
consultation papers that are published
by the treasury are
and we speculate that the reason for
that is they realized that there are
companies around the world who realize
they need to go and get regulated
realize they need to be regulated in
this kind of time zone and the UK was
saying well hang on don't execute on
whatever your preferred European
jurisdiction of choice is we're going to
do something just as good if not better
and the the release of the consultation
paper was is being seen by the industry
as a signal to sort of Stand by and see
yeah that might work people do want to
be in the UK and it has a lot of
attractive features right so just today
financial center it's very attractive
there's a lot of infrastructure a lot of
big players here the legal system is
much more attractive than the European
one which is often very frustrating and
difficult to navigate being a civil law
system whereas the UK's common law
system is is generally seen as much more
Finance friendly so there are a lot of
beaches of the UK that I think would
give people if you're based in Australia
or Japan or something and you're looking
to set up in this time zone I think
instinctively you would want to see if
it's possible to set up in the UK and I
think what the industry is seeing hoping
trying to read between the lines is that
the UK is saying okay yeah we will
provide that certainty in that framework
for you now there's a bunch of other
stuff going on in the UK things like the
digital pound or britcoin which by the
way is a great pun worth doing just for
that pun but you know there's a there's
a bunch of initiatives that that look a
bit distracting and there's some tax
stuff going on and you know there are
some mixed signals going on out there
now that consultation paper the
responses uh closed last month and we're
now the next stage is to see what comes
out of it unlikely to be before the
summer uh oh yes it's the first of June
now so maybe that's sufficiently summer
anyway but we kind of wait and see what
comes out of that process and then we'll
have a much better idea of whether the
UK really is just taking it seriously in
the way that it says it is awesome uh
kind of wrapping up I want to zoom out a
little bit and ask you to play uh both
the hero and The Devil's Advocate what
do you think is the dystopian and the
utopian future that these
cryptocurrencies and blockchain networks
can offer the world
well I I long since stopped making
predictions about crypto industry
because I was getting embarrassingly
wrong uh and they the problem is you're
recording this right so someone can come
back and play this
but I I think we need to be masters of
our own destiny to some extent hey look
I can Loop this all the way back to the
Royal Navy stuff at the very beginning
look at that right which is it's about
taking personal responsibility
I think those of us in the industry can
see there's an awful lot of good that
can be done with crypto but it is still
true that there are some bad actors out
there there are some coins out there
where you look at them and you're just
like like why why do you exist
now they're few and far between or fewer
and further between that's for sure but
that doesn't mean that they're not there
and that we as an industry don't have an
obligation if we want to see the future
of crypto being that grown-up
responsible respectable
part of the financial sector then we
need to we need to work hard to get
there and you know five ten years from
now whatever it is I think the future of
crypto is that it's not really crypto at
all it's just another asset class in The
Wider financial sector so you have
derivatives and you have equities you
have people specializing in these things
and there'll be differentiating rules
and there might be separate conferences
for them but but they're all part of
finance and I think crypto needs to take
its place at that table and just be yet
another category in The Wider scheme of
things so I think that's the that's the
future that we should be aiming towards
and I think that those who adhere to the
sort of old-fashioned Bureau crypto
which is that it's only used for
illegitimate purposes we should take
that risk seriously because those people
can really undermine confidence and can
thwart projects and the problem with
trust is it takes years to build up and
seconds to destroy and we need to be
vigilant we need to work hard to build
up that trust and to hunt out and shut
down those that would seek to destroy it
love it what are the next steps for
bittrex Global what are you guys
doubling down and focusing on well as
ever and it's a three answer we're
focusing on our customers so we as a
company have always avoided doing the
sort of shiny headline grabby but empty
business model kind of thing and we've
always just focused on what is it what
are the products what are the services
what are the features that our customers
want and you know through the spare
Market we're we're working really hard
and enjoying engaging with them to
produce really what we hope is the most
secure regulated crypto Exchange in the
world I've really enjoyed this past hour
chatting with you about global
regulations and just your perspective
it's very rare that I get to chat with a
lawyer about various different
regulatory entities so yeah they don't
let us out much so I hope I was able to
keep up with you uh this was a great
conversation so if people want to keep
up to date with what you're doing or
what bittrex Global is doing what's the
best way they can do that you can follow
me on LinkedIn or on Twitter and I'm at
Oliver Lynch on both those things uh you
can follow Bishops Global on its social
media as well or you can visit
global.matrix.com Oliver thank you so
much for spending an hour with us this
was an absolute pleasure thank you very
much indeed it's been a great choice to
be on the podcast cheers
well what did you think of that
conversation I thought it was really
interesting to hear more about the
jurisdictions that bittrex Global opted
to be regulated by and why they went
with the most forward thinking but also
extremely thorough Regulators it was
also really interesting to hear that
regulatory Arbitrage has a positive
meaning in the crypto space for entities
that are seeking proper regulation but
for regulatory lawyers that means very
negative things in almost every other
industry overall it sounded like the
more jurisdictions that are offering
regulatory Clarity can help provide the
crypto and blockchain Industry with a
path forward to build in a compliant
manner which is something that companies
in the US have been clamoring for for
many years now I'll definitely be
keeping my ears to the ground and
watching where these new crypto
companies opt to locate on that note I
want to thank you so much for taking the
time to listen to the smart economy
podcast if you liked what you heard and
want to support the show please keep Neo
news today in mind when voting for your
Neo Council representative as part of
Neo's governance process we appreciate
you and look forward to catching you
next time
foreign